As an entry-level security analyst,
one of your many roles will be to handle
an organization's digital and
physical assets.
As a reminder,
an asset is an item perceived as
having value to an organization.
During their lifespan, organizations
acquire all types of assets, including
physical office spaces, computers,
customers' PII, intellectual property,
such as patents or copyrighted
data, and so much more.
Unfortunately, organizations operate
in an environment that presents
multiple security threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities to their assets.
Let's review what threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities are and
discuss some common examples of each.
A threat is any circumstance or
event that can negatively impact assets.
One example of a threat is
a social engineering attack.
Social engineering is a manipulation
technique that exploits human error
to gain private information,
access, or valuables.
Malicious links in email messages that
look like they're from legitimate companies
or people is one method of
social engineering known as phishing.
As a reminder, phishing is a technique
that is used to acquire sensitive data,
such as user names, passwords,
or banking information.
Risks are different from threats.
A risk is anything that can impact
the confidentiality, integrity,
or availability of an asset.
Think of a risk as the likelihood
of a threat occurring.
An example of a risk to an organization
might be the lack of backup protocols for
making sure its stored information can be
recovered in the event of an accident or
security incident.
Organizations tend to rate risks
at different levels: low, medium,
and high, depending on possible
threats and the value of an asset.
A low-risk asset is information that would
not harm the organization's reputation or
ongoing operations, and would not
cause financial damage if compromised.
This includes public information
such as website content, or
published research data.
A medium-risk asset might include
information that's not available
to the public and may cause some
damage to the organization's finances,
reputation, or ongoing operations.
For example, the early release of a
company's quarterly earnings could impact
the value of their stock.
A high-risk asset is any information
protected by regulations or laws,
which if compromised, would have
a severe negative impact on
an organization's finances,
ongoing operations, or reputation.
This could include leaked assets with SPII,
PII,
or intellectual property.
Now, let's discuss vulnerabilities.
A vulnerability is a weakness that
can be exploited by a threat.
And it's worth noting that
both a vulnerability and
threat must be present for
there to be a risk.
Examples of vulnerabilities include:
an outdated firewall, software, or
application; weak passwords; or
unprotected confidential data.
People can also be
considered a vulnerability.
People's actions can significantly affect
an organization's internal network.
Whether it's a client,
external vendor, or employee,
maintaining security
must be a united effort.
So entry-level analysts
need to educate and
empower people to be
more security conscious.
For example, educating people on how to identify a
phishing email is a great starting point.
Using access cards to grant employee
access to physical spaces while
restricting outside visitors is
another good security measure.
Organizations must continually
improve their efforts when it comes to
identifying and mitigating vulnerabilities
to minimize threats and risks.
Entry-level analysts can support this
goal by encouraging employees to
report suspicious activity and
actively monitoring and
documenting employees'
access to critical assets.
Now that you're familiar with
some of the threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities analysts
frequently encounter,
coming up, we'll discuss how
they impact business operations.